docs/architecture.rst, before:

Architecture
============

Context and scope
-----------------

- Data origins
- Data sources
- Data processing
- General plotting and visualization tools
- Dashboard tools
- Environments

Visualization Generation and ``schedview`` Components
-----------------------------------------------------

``schedview`` is designed to manage the process of generating a figure in a few distinct stages or layers.
``schedview``'s submodules organize the code according to these stages:

Collection
  In the collection stage, ``schedview`` creates instances of ``python`` objects that hold the data to be visualized.
  The ``schedview.collect`` submodule provides the code used for this stage.
  Different implementations or configurations of the collection functionality may be required in different environemnts.
  For example, the direct access to the EFD may be available to ``schedview`` when being run at the observatory but maybe not when running at an RSP on an astronomer's laptop, but the same data may be available through different mechanisms in these other environments.
  All code that depends on specific access mechanisms that can potentially vary from one site to another should be encapsulated in ``schedview.collect``.
  No code that should be reused when the source of data is changed should be included in ``schedview.collect``.

Computation
  Sometimes, the data to be plotted is not exactly as provided by external sources, or can be generated entirely computationally.
  For example, sunrise and sunset times can be generated entirely from software dependencies.
  The ``schedview.compute`` submodule provides the code used for this stage.
  In general, code included in ``schedview.compute`` should be limited, and closely tied to the visualizations.
  It should depend neither on the data access mechanism, nor on the plotting tools used to actually create the visualization.
  More genenerally applicable analysis code will be more appropriately packaged outside of ``schedview``, for example in ``maf``.
  Either simple wrappers around this external code (in ``schedview.compute``) or the output of data that performs these computations read (by ``schedview.collect``) when the results are needed by ``schedview``.

Plotting
  The plotting stage creates the plots themselves, taking the data provided by the collection and computation stages and producing a figure or document that can be displayed to a user.
  The ``schedview.plot`` submodule provides code used for this stage.
  It should be limited to the specific application of plotting tools (e.g. ``bokeh`` or ``matplotlib``) to specific data sets provided by ``schedview.collect`` or ``schedview.compute``.
  ``schedview`` is not intended to be a repository for tools to make arbitrary plots, but rather specific applications of plots (perhaps with many configurable paramaters).
  Plotting utilities of more general usage should be packaged separaterly, outside of ``schedview``.
  For example, the separate ``uranography`` contains tools for making sky maps; ``schedview`` contains functions that use ``uranography`` to plot survey basis functions.

Dashboards
  It is often helpful to integrate multiple visualizations into a unified, standardized user display: a dashboard.
  The ``schedview.app`` submodule provides programs that combine collection, computation, and plotting tools to prodive such a dashboard in a web application.

Commit message:

Initial draft of context & scope section in the archictecture page

docs/architecture.rst, after:

Architecture
============

Context and scope
-----------------

The ``schedview`` module packages code to retrieve and visualize Rubin Observatory scheduler and progress data.
It interacts with a number of external systems, which together define its scope:

Data sources
  ``schedview`` will rely an multiple external systems to supply the data for the visualizations.
  Examples include repositories of data that supply databases of visit metadata (as generated by ``opsim``) and serializations of instances of the ``rubin_sim`` scheduler.

Data processing
  Data processing that is either too computationally expensive to perform in "real time" or of interest outside the ``schedview`` itself are outside the scope of the ``schedview`` module.
  The implementation and execution of such processing will be packaged elsewhere, and results provided in ways that can be read as data sources by ``schedview``.
  Examples of such externally packaged include ``opsim``, which performs scheduler simulations, and ``maf``, which computes metrics on the results of such simulations.

General purpose visualization tools
  The plotting code included in ``schedview`` is limited to the application of plotting tools to specific data sets.
  It is not a repository for general purpose visualization tools.
  Instead, ``schedview`` relies on external modules to supply such tools.
  Examples include (or may someday include) ``bokeh``, ``matplotlib``, ``maf``, and ``uranography``.
  (If common code is found to be needed by multiple distinct ``schedview`` visualizations, that may be an indication that it should be exctacted into a separate more general purpose repository.)

Computing environment
  ``schedview`` is a ``python`` module, and can only be run in a functional ``python`` environment, either directly (e.g. a user running it on their laptop) or in a container (e.g. in a kebernetes cluster at the observatory or the Rubin Scienc Platform (R.S.P.).)
  Within such an environment, ``schedview`` may be used to serve a web application that provides an interactive dashboard, or lower level elements of the module may be used as parts of user-written applications.

Notebooks
  Although the utilities in ``schedview`` are specific applications of plotting tools to data, advanced users need to make highly customized or fine-tuned examples (for example for a report or publication).
  The ``schedview`` module provides an API to allow more technical users to generate and fine-tune such visualizations in a notebook environment, or even include a full dashboard within a notebook.


Visualization Generation and ``schedview`` Components
-----------------------------------------------------

``schedview`` is designed to manage the process of generating a figure in a few distinct stages or layers.
``schedview``'s submodules organize the code according to these stages:

Collection
  In the collection stage, ``schedview`` creates instances of ``python`` objects that hold the data to be visualized.
  The ``schedview.collect`` submodule provides the code used for this stage.
  Different implementations or configurations of the collection functionality may be required in different environemnts.
  For example, the direct access to the EFD may be available to ``schedview`` when being run at the observatory but maybe not when running at an RSP on an astronomer's laptop, but the same data may be available through different mechanisms in these other environments.
  All code that depends on specific access mechanisms that can potentially vary from one site to another should be encapsulated in ``schedview.collect``.
  No code that should be reused when the source of data is changed should be included in ``schedview.collect``.

Computation
  Sometimes, the data to be plotted is not exactly as provided by external sources, or can be generated entirely computationally.
  For example, sunrise and sunset times can be generated entirely from software dependencies.
  The ``schedview.compute`` submodule provides the code used for this stage.
  In general, code included in ``schedview.compute`` should be limited, and closely tied to the visualizations.
  It should depend neither on the data access mechanism, nor on the plotting tools used to actually create the visualization.
  More genenerally applicable analysis code will be more appropriately packaged outside of ``schedview``, for example in ``maf``.
  Either simple wrappers around this external code (in ``schedview.compute``) or the output of data that performs these computations read (by ``schedview.collect``) when the results are needed by ``schedview``.

Plotting
  The plotting stage creates the plots themselves, taking the data provided by the collection and computation stages and producing a figure or document that can be displayed to a user.
  The ``schedview.plot`` submodule provides code used for this stage.
  It should be limited to the specific application of plotting tools (e.g. ``bokeh`` or ``matplotlib``) to specific data sets provided by ``schedview.collect`` or ``schedview.compute``.
  ``schedview`` is not intended to be a repository for tools to make arbitrary plots, but rather specific applications of plots (perhaps with many configurable paramaters).
  Plotting utilities of more general usage should be packaged separaterly, outside of ``schedview``.
  For example, the separate ``uranography`` contains tools for making sky maps; ``schedview`` contains functions that use ``uranography`` to plot survey basis functions.

Dashboards
  It is often helpful to integrate multiple visualizations into a unified, standardized user display: a dashboard.
  The ``schedview.app`` submodule provides programs that combine collection, computation, and plotting tools to prodive such a dashboard in a web application.
